---
id: inner-puzzles
title: Inner puzzles
sidebar_position: 1450
---

# Inner Puzzles

**Owner coins** are protocol coins that have operations that can only be performed by a designated owner:

* Collateral vaults (owner & keeper)
* Savings vaults (owner)
* Governance coins (owner & keeper)
* Announcers (owner & keeper)

Apart from Savings vaults, all protocol coins are also **keeper coins**, i.e. have at least one operation that can be performed by arbitrary third parties.

## Namespacing spends

To spend a protocol coin, an inner puzzle and corresponding inner solution must be provided in the solution.

### Owner spends
Owner coins have a curried arg ```INNER_PUZZLE_HASH```, which is used to verify that owner operations can only be performed by the legitimate owner of the coin. This is done by asserting that the hash of the inner puzzle provided in the solution matches the curried inner puzzle hash.

Savings vaults are an exception to the above. Since these don't have keeper operations, all spend paths require a reveal of the owner's inner puzzle. Therefore an ```INNER_PUZZLE``` curried arg holds the whole inner puzzle instead of only the inner puzzle hash.

### Keeper spends
To spend a coin on a keeper spend path, an arbitrary inner puzzle and corresponding solution can be passed in. The purpose of the inner puzzle in this case is not to verify the legitimacy of the spend but to namespace it, allowing a keeper to tie multiple coin spends together. A simple example would be to add a fee coin to a protocol operation bundle. Keepers must secure the inner puzzle they provide as it cannot be validated by the coin itself against its own state. For this purpose, coins with keeper spend paths output a condition that announces the inner puzzle:
```
(list CREATE_COIN_ANNOUNCEMENT (concat PROTOCOL_PREFIX inner_puzzle_hash))
```
Keepers should assert this announcement from a signed spend. The app for example uses a standard XCH coin from the keeper's wallet for this purpose, which typically doubles as the fee coin of the spend.

## Inner puzzle requirements

Running an inner puzzle with its corresponding inner solution results in a list of **inner conditions**. These conditions are then filtered by the following functions:

* Announcers and Savings vaults: ```filter-and-extract-unique-create-coin``` (create coin)
* Collateral vaults, treasury, oracle, recharge and surplus auctions, and payout coins: ```filter-and-extract-remark-solution``` (solution remark)
* Announcer Registry: ```find-solution-remark-value``` (solution remark)
* Governance coins: ```filter-conditions``` (create coin & solution remark)

The four functions fulfil two common key purposes, namely to block protocol conditions from being output by the inner puzzle and to extract solution args needed by the protocol coin layer.

Solution args are extracted from a **solution condition**, which is either a ```CREATE_COIN``` or a **solution remark** condition, respectively, except in the case of governance coin spends, which require both. A solution remark condition is a ```REMARK``` condition with ```SOLUTION_PREFIX``` ("S") in second position:

```
(REMARK SOLUTION_PREFIX ...)
```

The filter functions return information extracted from the solution condition(s) together with all other conditions that were generated by the inner puzzle. This means that a general purpose inner puzzle must be chosen so that it can simultaneously:
* not output any protocol conditions
* output exactly one or both solution conditions
The inner puzzle should ideally be able to output solution conditions of arbitrary form, so that there is no limitation on what spends are possible.

The [standard transaction puzzle](https://chialisp.com/standard-transactions/#code) fulfils those criteria, making it safe to use as inner puzzle for all protocol coins. This is also what the app does.
